.TH AGENTEK 1 "2026-02-26" "agentek 0.1.26" "Agentek CLI Manual"
.SH NAME
agentek \- CLI for blockchain and data tools
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B agentek
.BR list
.br
.B agentek
.BR info " " \fItool-name\fR
.br
.B agentek
.BR exec " " \fItool-name\fR " " [\fI--key value ...\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B agentek
is a command-line interface that exposes 150+ blockchain and data tools as simple shell commands. Each tool has a typed parameter schema, accepts flags, and returns structured JSON on stdout.
.PP
Supported chains include Ethereum, Optimism, Arbitrum, Polygon, and Base.
.SH COMMANDS
.TP
.B list
Print a sorted JSON array of all available tool names to stdout.
.TP
.BI info " tool-name"
Print a JSON object with the tool's name, description, parameter schema (JSON Schema), and supported chains.
.TP
.BI exec " tool-name" " [--key value ...]"
Execute the named tool with the given parameters and print the JSON result to stdout.
.SH FLAGS
.TP
.BI --key " value"
Set parameter
.I key
to
.IR value .
Values are coerced to the type expected by the tool's schema (number, boolean, string).
.TP
.BI --key = value
Inline form, equivalent to
.BI --key " value" .
.TP
.BI --key " v1" " --key" " v2"
Repeated flags for the same key produce an array
.IR [v1,\ v2] .
.TP
.B --flag
Boolean true when the schema expects a boolean.
.TP
.BI --json " '{...}'"
Merge a raw JSON object into the parameters.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B PRIVATE_KEY
Hex-encoded private key for signing transactions.
.TP
.B ACCOUNT
Hex address to use as the sender (read-only, no signing).
.TP
.B PERPLEXITY_API_KEY
API key for Perplexity AI search tools.
.TP
.B ZEROX_API_KEY
API key for 0x swap and quote tools.
.TP
.B TALLY_API_KEY
API key for Tally governance tools.
.TP
.B COINDESK_API_KEY
API key for CoinDesk news and data tools.
.TP
.B COINMARKETCAL_API_KEY
API key for CoinMarketCal event tools.
.TP
.B FIREWORKS_API_KEY
API key for Fireworks AI tools.
.TP
.B PINATA_JWT
JWT for Pinata IPFS tools.
.TP
.B X_BEARER_TOKEN
Bearer token for X/Twitter read tools.
.TP
.B X_API_KEY
X/Twitter OAuth application key.
.TP
.B X_API_KEY_SECRET
X/Twitter OAuth application secret.
.SH EXIT CODES
.TP
.B 0
Success.
.TP
.B 1
Runtime error (tool execution failed, invalid input, or timeout).
.TP
.B 2
Usage error (unknown command, missing arguments).
.SH EXAMPLES
List all available tools:
.PP
.RS
.nf
agentek list
.fi
.RE
.PP
Inspect a tool's schema:
.PP
.RS
.nf
agentek info getBalance
.fi
.RE
.PP
Get the latest block number on Ethereum:
.PP
.RS
.nf
agentek exec getBlockNumber --chainId 1
.fi
.RE
.PP
Check an address's ETH balance:
.PP
.RS
.nf
agentek exec getBalance --address 0xd8dA6BF26964aF9D7eEd9e03E53415D37aA96045 --chainId 1
.fi
.RE
.PP
Resolve an ENS name:
.PP
.RS
.nf
agentek exec getEnsAddress --name vitalik.eth --chainId 1
.fi
.RE
.SH SEE ALSO
.UR https://github.com/NaniDAO/agentek
Agentek on GitHub
.UE
